Okay, so the next thing I want to
move on to we're gonna take a look at
some figures and figure captions.
I'm actually going to go back to old
school relative absolute relative
positioning.
So what we've got going on here is
we've got four very cool pictures,
there they are.
And they have captions that
are associated with them.
So we're working with this same concept
here of figures and figure captions.
And as you see here, there's the figure.
They're all pretty much the same.
Obviously, they have different images,
but there we go.
There's the figure, here's our image,
here's our figure caption.
And we've got a bunch of
these here on the page.
Now, what I'd like to do, one of
the things that we often like to do with
figures and figure captions like this,
is we can display them like this and
that is just fine, but we may like
to take that figure caption and
display it on top of the figure, and
maybe make it a little bit transparent.
It'll be really cool kind of
looking in order to do that.
With Flexbox, the best way to
approach this is using absolute and
relative positioning.
And the thing is with absolute and
relative positioning,
when you get taught this stuff,
it's really kind of complicated, and
people get very confused by
the all of the absolute and
relative positioning stuff
that goes along with this.
And so I wanted to take the time to walk
you through exactly how absolute and
relative positioning works and
why it works, again,
in isolation rather than just sort of
giving you a formula for how to do this.
So this is the CSS that we
have here to start with.
Basically, here's our figure,
we've turned off the margin
that was set by the browser.
Where's our caption styling,
it's basically the same stuff
that you've already seen.
Here's our margin.
And then,
here's a hack to make our images flexible.
So notice that I set our images
to a 100% for the width,
so the way this works is that
images are an inline element.
They are by default set to be
as wide as the image is itself.
And if you make your screen too small,
you've probably seen this before.
You will start to get
a scroll bar on the bottom,
you'll have to scroll over to
see the rest of the image.
When you put a width of
100% on your images,
they will expand to fill their container.
And they will also shrink
down proportionately.
This is a very fake responsive image.
This is not true responsive images.
But what it does do is it lets
our images flex a little bit,
such that what as we're
working here inside of
our code pen,
we get a sense of a flexible image.
And then, down here in the media queries,
basically,
I'm just putting these on row down,
so that they don't stack
on top of each other and then they
go to a two by two grid like this.
So a really simple layout.
Okay, so the next thing that I want to
do is I'm going to put it up here, right
here at the top around line number seven
where I've got the figure declaration.
I'm going to add to
this a display of flex.
How cool is that?
So just by saying display flex,
I've managed to put the caption
next to these images.
So we had them set up
stacked on top of each other,
which is the default behavior
with figure and figure caption.
By just saying display flex,
they now just appear next to each other,
horizontally here in space.
If you want this you can keep it,
that's absolutely fine.
But you can also rearrange it, somebody
was asking about when to use column.
Well, here's a place where
it would make perfect sense,
we could say our flex flow is column,
no wrap.
So that's going to put our caption and
our image right next to each other,
stacked very nicely on top of each other,
just like this.
Notice there's no little space in
between them that we had before with
the figure caption, which is coming
from the browser or somewhere.
Okay, so now for the figure caption,
here's what I'm going to do just
after all of the stuff that I've got here,
if we said position of absolute,
This is going to immediately
take all of our captions and
just stick them somewhere
here on the page.
And in this case, it happens to put
it up in the upper left hand corner.
The reason why this happens
is that the caption itself
is going to work its way up its HTML here.
We start with a caption, it's looking for
some sort of element where
it will eventually go all
the way up to the top left
hand corner of the webpage.
But by setting this up
with Flexbox like this,
it will go up to the upper left
hand corner of the screen figure.
The other way that we do this
without Flexbox that you can do
here as well would be to say
position relative on the figure.
And that will tell the absolutely
positioned element
where should it be absolutely
positioned relative to.
If there's no relative position
declared anywhere in the webpage,
it will eventually wind up in the top
left hand corner of your of your screen.
This is why we often set
position of relative first,
because we're going to put
it relative to that, and
then we have our absolute positioning
within that particular area.
So here it's gonna be within
the figure boundaries where
are we gonna set our
absolutely positioned caption.
So we need a little bit more,
probably a little bit more,
styling here on this figure caption.
So I'm going to say the bottom is 0%,
so we'll put it down
there on the bottom, and
we can also say the width is 100%.
So it'll stretch very
nicely across our figure.
And the little sizzle part would be to do
something with opacity of say like 0.7.
There we go.
So now we can see the image
coming through underneath.
So now, we have a very attractive way of
laying out our images here on the web page
with this cool little figure.
And hopefully this also
sparked some ideas for
you of things that you could
do with this figure caption.
Right now, it's just set to stay
there across all dimensions, right?
It's just always gonna have this lovely
figure caption on top of these things.
But if you wanted, you could do
something where the figure caption maybe
shifts when you have a wider screen,
you can take that figure caption and
display it to the right or to the left
of your image if you wanted to,
using Flexbox instead of
displaying it on top of the image.
So you have a lot of flexibility once
you start looking at these in terms
of micro layouts, and so sort of
the giant layout of the whole web page.
>> So
flex grow one evenly distributes elements.
So I was just wondering if the media
query scenario fitting everything
on one row could be used that for
the elements of the same width,
instead of calculating the percentage for
the flex basis.
>> Okay, all right, I understand
the question a little bit better now.
So it's flex grow, I had heard flex flow,
and I was very confused.
Flex grow as a just changing the value
of flex grow as you go between
various media queries.
You probably could do that, but
you are leaving a lot of
calculation to the browser.
And so when you leave
calculations to the browser,
that means every browser may do their
calculations slightly differently.
I would think that that is probably not
an approach that you would want to do for
that reason.
But you could certainly
experiment with it.
Try it across a whole bunch
of different browsers.
See if you get something that you like
that would be one way of thinking
about it.
But the flex basis methodology
that I've talked about here
is pretty straightforward to understand.
It kinda like width,
it's just a little bit different, and
I think it's conceptually
a little bit easier to understand
than doing things with Flex grow.
>> How is figxaption with
accessibility in mind?
>> Figcaption is awesome
with accessibility in mind.
When you start with
semantically good HTML,
you have a much better chance of hitting
your accessibility targets here,
the whole purpose of figure
in Figcaptions the following.
So it's to associate some sort of label
the text, right, the caption associated
with whatever you have inside of
the figure, whether that's an image or
a code snippet, or ASCII art, or whatever
other craziness you wanna put in there.
And so using this semantic markup is
a really wonderful way of doing that.
The other thing that a figure does I
haven't really talked about, when you have
a figure itself, it indicates that that
particular element kind of stands alone.
So we could pull it out and we can put it
elsewhere on the page in terms of layouts,
and we're not destroying
the message of the page.
So if you're using an image
by itself on the page,
it appears where it appears in
your layout, and that's fine.
But with a figure we
might move it around and
you can think about this
back to like a textbook.
So if you're reading a textbook and it
says in figure one be sure to take note of
blah blah blah, and you look around on
the page, you may have to look aways and
then you find figure one,
it's labeled as figure one,
right, with whatever picture it is.
It isn't necessarily
right next to the text.
So likewise here in HTML,
your figure can move around on that page.
It doesn't have to stay
in one particular place.
>> This figure act as a thumbnail for
the video.
>> Figure as a thumbnail for video,
no, I think what you're thinking of is
the poster attribute, so
in the video element there is a poster
attribute that will be the static image
that displays on top of your video.